---
layout: toast
title: Keeping
author: Benjamin Daniel Lawless
poet: Mark Sanders
date: 2018-11-30 09:30:00
number: ???
description: |

image:
image-caption: Photo Courtesy Brian Landis
notes:



---

# Keeping
**By Mark Sanders**  
*for Kimberly*

Let me say, if I might, how beautiful you are this morning.
Fog exhales from the pond, and the sun oozes  
like tea steeping in your cup. Breeze, so faint, is the tear in your eye  
you had not thought I noticed. The porch swing rocks,  
the chains murmur, and the hair brushing your face  
—how should I describe it?—are hands that once held yours.
Do you see?  You know your comforters.

Let me say, too, at the risk of clouds and cold shadows  
felled from oaks, at the risk of interruption — cows across the road  
lowing and farm trucks rumbling like sour stomachs  
over the blacktop — loveliness endures, even in grief, lasts long.
Loss felt is never really loss but keeping. On the lawn,  
among the crepe myrtles or turk’s caps, sifting through lantana,  
seated beside you now, insisting, like interjections  

— blackbirds on fence wires, the road runner’s dogged whimper—  
the impression of the loved walks, runs, sleeps  
in all the familiar haunts, there in the orchard among figs  
and pears, there and there, at the table and shed,  
plainly in sight. The world, so full of itself, indulgent,  
does not need sorrow save to call to mind such occasions  
when we bring back what is ours. Let me say  

the river runs regardless and we cross. Hills and piney woods  
referenced as points passed. Mean miles from the coast  
and the heart’s mouth and the mind’s deep sea  
—because you are beautiful as the morning cannot be—  
because you are beautiful in keeping,  
this will be held in sipping silence, that the morning  
is the cup and the tea, something everlasting, delicious.
